{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1515;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\f0\fs20 Black Holes\par
Primary tabs\par
\par
    View(active tab)\par
    Edit\par
\par
The term black hole is of very recent origin. It was coined in 1969 by the American scientist John Wheeler as a graphic\par
description of an idea that goes back at least two hundred years, to a time when there were two theories about light:\par
one, which Newton favored, was that it was composed of particles; the other was that it was made of waves. We now\par
know that really both theories are correct. By the wave/particle duality of quantum mechanics, light can be regarded as\par
both a wave and a particle. Under the theory that light is made up of waves, it was not clear how it would respond to\par
gravity. But if light is composed of particles, one might expect them to be affected by gravity in the same way that\par
cannonballs, rockets, and planets are. At first people thought that particles of light traveled infinitely fast, so gravity\par
would not have been able to slow them down, but the discovery by Roemer that light travels at a finite speed meant that\par
gravity might have an important effect.\par
On this assumption, a Cambridge don, John Michell, wrote a paper in 1783 in the Philosophical Transactions of the\par
Royal Society of London in which he pointed out that a star that was sufficiently massive and compact would have such\par
a strong gravitational field that light could not escape: any light emitted from the surface of the star would be dragged\par
back by the star\rquote s gravitational attraction before it could get very far. Michell suggested that there might be a large\par
number of stars like this. Although we would not be able to see them because the light from them would not reach us,\par
we would still feel their gravitational attraction. Such objects are what we now call black holes, because that is what\par
they are: black voids in space. A similar suggestion was made a few years later by the French scientist the Marquis de\par
Laplace, apparently independently of Michell. Interestingly enough, Laplace included it in only the first and second\par
editions of his book The System of the World, and left it out of later editions; perhaps he decided that it was a crazy\par
idea. (Also, the particle theory of light went out of favor during the nineteenth century; it seemed that everything could\par
be explained by the wave theory, and according to the wave theory, it was not clear that light would be affected by\par
gravity at all.)\par
\par
elementary particle and forces of nature\par
Primary tabs\par
\par
    View(active tab)\par
    Edit\par
\par
Submitted by admin on Thu, 06/28/2012 - 16:07\par
\par
Aristotle believed that all the matter in the universe was made up of four basic elements \endash  earth, air, fire, and water.\par
These elements were acted on by two forces: gravity, the tendency for earth and water to sink, and levity, the tendency\par
for air and fire to rise. This division of the contents of the universe into matter and forces is still used today. Aristotle\par
believed that matter was continuous, that is, one could divide a piece of matter into smaller and smaller bits without any\par
limit: one never came up against a grain of matter that could not be divided further. A few Greeks, however, such as\par
Democritus, held that matter was inherently grainy and that everything was made up of large numbers of various different\par
kinds of atoms. (The word atom means \ldblquote indivisible\rdblquote  in Greek.) For centuries the argument continued without any real\par
evidence on either side, but in 1803 the British chemist and physicist John Dalton pointed out that the fact that chemical\par
compounds always combined in certain proportions could be explained by the grouping together of atoms to form units\par
called molecules. However, the argument between the two schools of thought was not finally settled in favor of the\par
atomists until the early years of this century. One of the important pieces of physical evidence was provided by Einstein.\par
In a paper written in 1905, a few weeks before the famous paper on special relativity, Einstein pointed out that what was\par
called Brownian motion \endash  the irregular, random motion of small particles of dust suspended in a liquid \endash  could be\par
explained as the effect of atoms of the liquid colliding with the dust particles.\par
By this time there were already suspicions that these atoms were not, after all, indivisible. Several years previously a\par
fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge, J. J. Thomson, had demonstrated the existence of a particle of matter, called the\par
electron, that had a mass less than one thousandth of that of the lightest atom. He used a setup rather like a modern TV\par
picture tube: a red-hot metal filament gave off the electrons, and because these have a negative electric charge, an\par
electric field could be used to accelerate them toward a phosphor-coated screen. When they hit the screen, flashes of\par
light were generated. Soon it was realized that these electrons must be coming from within the atoms themselves, and in\par
1911 the New Zealand physicist Ernest Rutherford finally showed that the atoms of matter do have internal structure:\par
they are made up of an extremely tiny, positively charged nucleus, around which a number of electrons orbit. He deduced\par
this by analyzing the way in which alpha-particles, which are positively charged particles given off by radioactive atoms,\par
are deflected when they collide with atoms.\par
Tags:\par
\par
    particle\par
    universe\par
\par
space and time\par
Primary tabs\par
\par
    View(active tab)\par
    Edit\par
\par
Submitted by admin on Thu, 06/28/2012 - 16:06\par
\par
Our present ideas about the motion of bodies date back to Galileo and Newton. Before them people believed\par
Aristotle, who said that the natural state of a body was to be at rest and that it moved only if driven by a force or\par
impulse. It followed that a heavy body should fall faster than a light one, because it would have a greater pull\par
toward the earth.\par
The Aristotelian tradition also held that one could work out all the laws that govern the universe by pure\par
thought: it was not necessary to check by observation. So no one until Galileo bothered to see whether bodies\par
of different weight did in fact fall at different speeds. It is said that Galileo demonstrated that Aristotle\rquote s belief\par
was false by dropping weights from the leaning tower of Pisa. The story is almost certainly untrue, but Galileo\par
did do something equivalent: he rolled balls of different weights down a smooth slope. The situation is similar to\par
that of heavy bodies falling vertically, but it is easier to observe because the Speeds are smaller. Galileo\rquote s\par
measurements indicated that each body increased its speed at the same rate, no matter what its weight. For\par
example, if you let go of a ball on a slope that drops by one meter for every ten meters you go along, the ball\par
will be traveling down the slope at a speed of about one meter per second after one second, two meters per\par
second after two seconds, and so on, however heavy the ball. Of course a lead weight would fall faster than a\par
feather, but that is only because a feather is slowed down by air resistance. If one drops two bodies that don\rquote t\par
have much air resistance, such as two different lead weights, they fall at the same rate. On the moon, where\par
there is no air to slow things down, the astronaut David R. Scott performed the feather and lead weight\par
experiment and found that indeed they did hit the ground at the same time.\par
Tags:\par
\par
    space\par
    time\par
    universe\par
\par
\par
Our picture of the universe\par
Primary tabs\par
\par
    View(active tab)\par
    Edit\par
\par
Submitted by admin on Thu, 06/28/2012 - 16:04\par
\par
A well-known scientist (some say it was Bertrand Russell) once gave a public lecture on astronomy. He\par
described how the earth orbits around the sun and how the sun, in turn, orbits around the center of a vast\par
collection of stars called our galaxy. At the end of the lecture, a little old lady at the back of the room got up and\par
said: \ldblquote What you have told us is rubbish. The world is really a flat plate supported on the back of a giant\par
tortoise.\rdblquote  The scientist gave a superior smile before replying, \ldblquote What is the tortoise standing on.\rdblquote  \ldblquote You\rquote re very\par
clever, young man, very clever,\rdblquote  said the old lady. \ldblquote But it\rquote s turtles all the way down!\rdblquote\par
Most people would find the picture of our universe as an infinite tower of tortoises rather ridiculous, but why do\par
we think we know better? What do we know about the universe, and how do we know it? Where did the\par
universe come from, and where is it going? Did the universe have a beginning, and if so, what happened before\par
then? What is the nature of time? Will it ever come to an end? Can we go back in time? Recent breakthroughs\par
in physics, made possible in part by fantastic new technologies, suggest answers to some of these\par
longstanding questions. Someday these answers may seem as obvious to us as the earth orbiting the sun \endash  or\par
perhaps as ridiculous as a tower of tortoises. Only time (whatever that may be) will tell.\par
As long ago as 340 BC the Greek philosopher Aristotle, in his book On the Heavens, was able to put forward\par
two good arguments for believing that the earth was a round sphere rather than a Hat plate. First, he realized\par
that eclipses of the moon were caused by the earth coming between the sun and the moon. The earth\rquote s\par
shadow on the moon was always round, which would be true only if the earth was spherical. If the earth had\par
been a flat disk, the shadow would have been elongated and elliptical, unless the eclipse always occurred at a\par
time when the sun was directly under the center of the disk. Second, the Greeks knew from their travels that\par
the North Star appeared lower in the sky when viewed in the south than it did in more northerly regions. (Since\par
the North Star lies over the North Pole, it appears to be directly above an observer at the North Pole, but to\par
someone looking from the equator, it appears to lie just at the horizon. From the difference in the apparent\par
position of the North Star in Egypt and Greece, Aristotle even quoted an estimate that the distance around the\par
earth was 400,000 stadia. It is not known exactly what length a stadium was, but it may have been about 200\par
yards, which would make Aristotle\rquote s estimate about twice the currently accepted figure. The Greeks even had a\par
third argument that the earth must be round, for why else does one first see the sails of a ship coming over the\par
horizon, and only later see the hull?\par
Tags:\par
\par
    universe\par
    history\par
    mankind\par
\par
\par
new zealand travel\par
Primary tabs\par
\par
    View(active tab)\par
    Edit\par
\par
Submitted by admin on Thu, 06/28/2012 - 15:59\par
\par
Still can't believe how quickly time is flying, I've been in Queenstown 3 weeks.\par
\par
So went out Monday night after work on the 'blindfold barcrawl' in the snow which was hilarious. You are blindfolded on the walk between the bars and you have to hold onto a rope and follow the person in front. So we got to do this at night, in the snow with people falling over, soaked to the bone, throwing snowballs at eachother etc. Was really good fun. Met up with the group of lads who are staying in the dorm next door to me and we then spent the whole of Tuesday drinking as well, I tried going to work at 4pm, only to be ill, make a round of tea for everyone then be told to go home, where we went out again! The only food I managed to keep down was a mcdonalds cheeseburger at 2 in the morning. So today was a bit of a death day, sleep, fergburger, watching the local businessmen dress up in drag and run an obsticle course. Standard.\par
\par
Quiet one in tonight, so I can actually go boarding seeing as there is fresh snow, do a whole shift at work and out afterward.\par
Tags:\par
\par
    new zealand\par
    holiday\par
    amazing\par
    relax\par
\par
\par
}
 